# The Maze

Collaborators: Jennifer Cheung, Stephanie Chen <br>  
***Code is Available Upon Request***

## Introduction 

The Maze is a game where players must navigate their way from the top-left corner of a maze to the bottom-right corner in order to beat the game. The mazes are randomly generated for each game, and no maze is the same as the other. Mazes support different maze dimensions based on the player's preference. 

## How To Play

### Generating the Maze

A maze is represented by a grid of cells, where each cell has connections to its neighboring cells on the right and bottom sides. These walls are initialized, and a set of edges between adjacent cells is created. Kruskal's algorithm is applied to this set of edges in order to select a subset that forms a spanning tree of the maze. By utilizing Kruskal's algorithm, mazes are randomly generated by gradually removing walls between cells while ensuring connectivity, and also guaranteeing a solution to the maze (since there is always only one path between any two cells).

### Solving the Maze

The user can solve the maze by using either the breadth-first search (BFS) algorithm or depth-first search (DFS) algorithm. The BFS algorithm first explores all the cells at the current level before moving forward to the next, while the DFS algorithm explores as far as possible along each branch before backtracking and exploring other branches. Both algorithms start at the top-left cell and traverse the maze to the end cell, storing the path from one cell to another in a hashmap. Once the end cell is discovered, the solving algorithms trace back the path from the end cell to the start cell to determine the solving path of the maze. 

### User Interaction 

The maze is rendered using a graphical interface, where the start cell is an ocean-blue color and the end cell is a pale garden green color. Cells that the algorithms have already visited are highlighted with a light sky blue color, and the solution path is colored bright sea green. The user can press the "b" key to initiate a breadth-depth-first search algorithm to solve the maze, while pressing "d" would initiate a depth-first search algorithm to solve the maze. If the user wishes to reset the game, they can press "r" to clear the board and generate a new random maze. However, the user must directly change the dimensions of the board in the `row` and `columns` variable in the `MazeWorld` class if they wish to do so. 

## Important Classes

1. ICell - Interface representing cells in the maze. Cell and BorderCell classes are used to represent cells in the maze and on the outside, respectively.

2. Edge - Represents a connection between two cells and includes a randomly generated weight for Kruskal's Algorithm.

3. MazeWorld - Manages the maze state and implements Kruskal's Algorithm.

4. EdgeComp - Compares edges based on their weights.

5. Kruskal's Algorithm - Method in MazeWorld that generates the maze randomly by gradually removing walls between cells while ensuring connectivity. It utilizes a HashMap to track cell connections.

## Important Methods

1. updateCell: Updates a cell based on a given boolean value.
   
2. getRep: Retrieves the representative of a cell in a HashMap.
   
3. sameCell: Checks if a given cell is the same as the current cell.
   
4. sameRep: Compares if two cell representatives are the same.
   
5. updateRep: Unions two cells by updating their representatives.
    
6. contains: Checks if an edge connects the given cells.
    
7. compare: Compares two edges based on weight.
    
8. makeScene: Renders the maze by drawing walls or edges.
    
9. cellGen & edgeGen: Generate cells and edges for the maze.
    
10. search: Performs either breadth-first or depth-first search on the maze.
    
11. reconstruct: Rebuilds the solution path using a HashMap.
   
12. onKeyReleased: Handles user inputs for search initiation and maze reset.
  
13. onTick: Continues the search process until the maze is solved.
    
14. add: Adds a cell to the worklist and updates the HashMap.

15. addNeighbors: Adds neighboring cells to the worklist based on existing edges.
